# Cargo

- Rust's build system and package manager.
  - From my first-ever time using it, it feels *so* much better than fucking CMake. I mean, it is a meta-build system but whatever, it's **miles** better.
- It's job is to:
    1. Build code.
    2. Download libraries.
    3. Building those libraries/dependencies.

## Summary

1. Cargo can initialize a project using `cargo new`.
2. Cargo can build a project using `cargo build`.
3. Cargo can run a project using `cargo run`.
4. Cargo can build a project without creating a binary with `cargo check`.
5. Cargo offers new directories for code to live in rather than in the folder where the source files are.
6. Cargo commands are uniform across Win, Linux, and macOS.
7. Cargo can compile with optimizations with `cargo --release`.
8. Cargo makes builing intricate programs easier.
9. To build existing projects, `clone` it with Git and use `cargo build` on it

## Creating a Project via Cargo

- When creating a project with cargo, a folder is created.
- Within the folder, there's a `src` that contains the `.rs` file, and a `Cargo.toml` file.
- The project will also initializze a new Git repository.
  - Repositories won't be generated if `cargo new` is run within an existing repo. [I have a repo here, so it won't be initializing new ones under it!]

### TOML

- `Tom's Obvious, Minimal Language` is Cargo's configuration format.
- The first line is a that starts with `[package]` is called a **section heading**.
  - Section headings indicate that any following statements are configuring a package.
  - As a project grows, sections will be added.
  - The other lines are information that cargo needs in order to compile a program.
- `[dependencies]` is a way for me to list my project's dependencies.
  - These dependencies that come in packages of code are called `Crates`.
- Cargo expects `src` to have all the source files in the project.
- The top-level of the project is reserved for README files, license stuff, and configs.
- Cargo brings organization to projects (and appears far friendlier than CMake; that shit's painful).
- Converting a project that didn't primariily use Cargo is easy, just place the code into a `src` directory and create a `Cargo.toml` file.

## Building and Running a Cargo Project

### Building

- To build a Cargo project, use `cargo build` (That easy?).
- This creates an executable in `target/debug/project_name.exe`.
- The default build is a debug build.
- Cargo puts the binary in a directory called `debug` that lives in the `target` directory apparently.

### Running

- Building with Cargo for the first time also cause Cargo to create a new file at the top-level: `Cargo.lock`.
- This file kepps track of the exact versions of dependencies in a project.
- Cargo manges the contents for me. Thank you, Cargo.
- Running a project could be either running the executable directly, or using `cargo run`. (Again, that easy?)
- Cargo is intelligent enough to know if files were changed or not before running the executable, thus it can opt to just run the binary rather than rebuilding it. Good job, Cargo!

### Checking

- The command `cargo check` checks if the code compiles but doesn't produce an executable.
- This command is much faster than `cargo build` because it skips creating an executable.
- It allows to check if the project still compiles or not!
- Once ready to produce an executable, only then is it appropriate to use `cargo build`.

### Building for Release

- If a project is ready for release, `cargo --release` will compile the project with optimizations.
- This creates an executable in the `target/release` directory.
- Compile go slow so code run fast.
- To benchmark the code's running time, then the project should be built with `cargo --release`.

